Updated Intro to solana mobile (#478)
solana-foundation/developer-content: content/courses/mobile/intro-to-solana-mobile.md

## Summary

- The **Solana Mobile Wallet Adapter** (**MWA**) allows mobile apps to submit

>   transactions for signing via a WebSocket connection to mobile wallets.

Author: thank you!

-A Solana Mobile SDK that uses React Native,
[Seed Vault](https://docs.solanamobile.com/getting-started/overview#seed-vault),
and the
[Solana dApp Store](https://docs.solanamobile.com/getting-started/overview#solana-dapp-store).
These resources simplify mobile development with a similar experience but with
mobile-specific features.

This lesson focuses on using React Native to create a simple Android app that
integrates with the Solana network. If you're not familiar with programming in
React or Solana, we recommend starting with our
[Intro to Solana lesson](https://github.com/solana-foundation/developer-content/tree/main/content/courses/intro-to-solana)
and returning when you're ready. If you are, let's dive in!

## Intro to Solana Mobile

The Solana wallet interaction differs slightly on mobile compared to the web.
The core wallet functionality is the same: the wallet holds your private keys
and uses them to sign and send transactions. To avoid having different
interfaces between wallets, developers abstracted that functionality into the
SWA standard. This remains the standard on the web while its mobile counterpart

> is the MWA.

Author: alright!

their favorite Solana wallet. Imagine a world where you can use your Solana
wallet as seamlessly as you can use Apple Pay.

> In summary, mobile blockchain transactions opens up many doors. It is
> important to be informed and learn how one can be part of it, let's explore

> > how.

Author: got it!

- [Unity](https://docs.solanamobile.com/unity/unity_sdk)
- [Unreal Engine](https://docs.solanamobile.com/unreal/unreal_sdk)

To keep the development experience as close as possible to other lessons, we
will be working exclusively with React Native.

## From React to React Native

React Native is very similar to React but designed for mobile. Here are some key
points to note:

- React Native compiles down to native Android and iOS apps while React compiles
  down to a collection of web pages.
- Instead of using web elements like <div>, you will use mobile-native elements
  like <View>.
- React Native allows access to mobile hardware, such as the camera and
  accelerometer, which React web apps cannot access.
- Many standard React and Node packages may not be compatible with React Native
  and setting up React Native can be challenging. Fortunately, their

>   [Official Docs](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup?guide=native)

Author: thank you!💡

  contains everything you may need.
- For development, you will need to set up
  [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio/intro/) for Android apps
  and an emulator or physical device for testing.

> **NOTE:**There is a learning curve, but if you know React you're not nearly as
> far from being able to develop mobile apps as you think! It may feel jarring
> to start, but after a few hours of React Native development, you will start to
> feel much more comfortable. We have included a [Lab](#lab) section below to
> help you.

> ## Creating a Solana dApp with React Native

Author: understood

connection with the dApp that initiated the session. The dApp initiates this
connection using the `transact` function, as shown below:

```tsx
transact(async (wallet: Web3MobileWallet) => {
  // Your wallet action code goes here
});
```

This function provides access to the `Web3MobileWallet` object, allowing you to
perform actions such as [signing transactions(###)] or interacting with wallet
data. Remember, all wallet interactions must occur inside the callback of the
`transact` function.

### Signing and sending transactions

The overall flow for signing and sending a transaction is as follows:

- Use the `transact` function to establish a session with the wallet. This
  function takes an asynchronous callback:
  `async (wallet: Web3MobileWallet) => {...}`.
- Inside the callback, request wallet authorization using `wallet.authorize()`
  or `wallet.reauthorize()`, depending on the wallet's state (whether it has an
  active session or requires reauthorization).
- Once the wallet is authorized, you can either:
  - Sign the transaction using `wallet.signTransactions()`, or
  - Sign and send the transaction directly using
    `wallet.signAndSendTransactions()`.

> ![Transacting](/public/assets/courses/unboxed/basic-solana-mobile-transact.png)

Author: here is the [PR](https://github.com/solana-foundation/developer-content/pull/549) to updated images using whimsical per CONTRIBUTING.md, i am more than willing to grant access if there will be aa need to edit them later

cutting-edge applications with a seamless user experience. Stay curious and
experiment with different tools to push the boundaries of what you can achieve
with mobile dApps. Let's put our knowledge to test by building a counting app
with React Native for Android OS!

## Lab: Building a Mobile Counter dApp with React Native

This dApp will display a counter and allow users to make increments via a
transaction on the Solana blockchain. The app will also connect to a wallet for
signing transactions.

We will use the **Anchor framework** to interact with the on-chain counter
program. The client side has already been developed in one of our previous
lessons called
[Intro to client-side Anchor development](https://solana.com/developers/courses/onchain-development/intro-to-anchor-frontend),
feel free to check out its code for more context.

To ensure you fully understand the core concepts, we will write this application
in vanilla React Native without a starting template. While Solana Mobile offers
templates that handle some boilerplate, building from scratch provides a much
deeper understanding.

### Getting Started

> To get started, you will need to properly set up a React Native development
> environment if you didn't already. This
> [article](https://reactnative.dev/docs/set-up-your-environment) shows you how.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started, you will need to properly set up a React Native development
environment if you didn't already. The
[React native Environment Setup Guide](https://reactnative.dev/docs/set-up-your-environment) shows you how.
```

Make link text useful without needing to read the surrounding text. 'article' on its own doesn't have enough detail. See [CONTRIBUTING.med](https://github.com/solana-foundation/developer-content/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#prose)

Remember that this step is not required if you are using a
[Framework](https://reactnative.dev/architecture/glossary#react-native-framework).

> Ensure you have Node.js, npm, or yarn installed on your system. These will
> manage your JavaScript packages. Install Android Studio:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download) installed. 

Install Android Studio:
```

Reviewer: node comes with npm and yarn isn't necessary (and can make things weird and complicated in yarn v4)

> **NOTE:** You will need to configure the `ANDROID_HOME` environment variable
> so that your terminal can recognize Android’s SDK tools. This step is critical
> for running and building your app on Android.

## Project Setup

Create a Sample Project for the Emulator Setup to ensure your Android
environment is set up correctly. In your terminal, run the code below within
your preferred directory to scaffold a new React Native project, where
`SampleProject` is your preferred project name. You can open the project in
Android Studio and ensure it runs correctly on the Android emulator.

```bash
  npx react-native init SampleProject --npm
```

### Cloning and Running MWA

1.  Clone the repo in `SampleProject`

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/solana-mobile/mobile-wallet-adapter.git
    ```

2.  In Android Studio, _Open project > Navigate to the cloned directory > Select
    mobile-wallet-adapter/android_
3.  After Android Studio finishes loading the project, select `fakewallet` in
    the build/run configuration dropdown in the top right

    ![Fake Wallet](/public/assets/courses/unboxed/basic-solana-mobile-fake-wallet.png)

> 

Reviewer: You're also welcome to update these screenshots but only if you have time.

> 4.  For easier debugging, use **Logcat**. Check the
>     [official installation guide](https://developer.android.com/studio/debug/logcat)
>     if you are interested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4.  For easier debugging, use **Logcat**. Check the
    [Logcat installation guide](https://developer.android.com/studio/debug/logcat)
    if you are interested.
```

Reviewer: see previous comments re: link text

5.  Now that your fake wallet is running on the emulator, go to _View -> Tool
    Windows -> Logcat_. This will open up a console logging out what’s happening
    with fake wallet.

6.  (Optional) Install other

>     [Solana wallets](https://solana.com/ecosystem/explore?categories=wallet) on

Reviewer: Link is dead. We got rid of these pages to avoid giving recommendations or having to vet potential malware. Was not my choice!

Author: haha, i replaced iit with a search from google play store instead: https://play.google.com/store/search?q=solana%20wallet&c=apps
is that fine?

```

This should open and run the app in your Android emulator. If you run into
problems, check to make sure you’ve accomplished everything in the
[_Getting Started_](#getting-started) section.

### 3. Install Dependencies

We will need to add in our Solana dependencies.
[The Solana Mobile docs provide a nice list of packages](https://docs.solanamobile.com/react-native/setup)
and explanations for why we need them:

- `@solana-mobile/mobile-wallet-adapter-protocol`: A React Native/Javascript API
  enabling interaction with MWA-compatible wallets
- `@solana-mobile/mobile-wallet-adapter-protocol-web3js`: A convenience wrapper
  to use common primitives from
  [@solana/web3.js](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana-web3.js), such as
  `Transaction` and `Uint8Array`
- `@solana/web3.js`: Solana Web Library for interacting with the Solana network
  through the [JSON RPC API](https://solana.com/docs/rpc)
- `react-native-get-random-values` Secure random number generator polyfill for

>   <<<<<<< HEAD `web3.js` underlying Crypto library on React Native

Reviewer: Merge conflict. Please fix.

- # `buffer`: Buffer polyfill; also needed for `web3.js` on React Native.
  `web3.js` underlying library on React Native
- `buffer`: Buffer polyfill; also needed for `web3.js` on React Native
  > > > > > > > a3ea04e (minor fixes, resolved conflict)

In addition to this list, we will add two more packages:

- `@coral-xyz/anchor`: The Anchor TS client.
- `assert`: A polyfill that lets Anchor do its thing.
- `text-encoding-polyfill`: A polyfill needed to create the `Program` object

> If you’re not familiar: polyfills actively replace Node-native libraries to make

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you’re not familiar: polyfills provide Node-native libraries to make
```

they don't replace node libraries, they provide them. if the node feature exists it won't be polyfilled.

Author: my bad, corrected

  children: ReactNode;
};

export function ProgramProvider({ children }: ProgramProviderProps) {
  const { connection } = useConnection();
  const [program, setProgram] = useState<Program<AnchorCounter> | null>(null);
  const [counterAddress, setCounterAddress] = useState<PublicKey | null>(null);

  const setup = useCallback(async () => {
    const programId = new PublicKey(

>       "ALeaCzuJpZpoCgTxMjJbNjREVqSwuvYFRZUfc151AKHU", //public key, do not expose anything else

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "ALeaCzuJpZpoCgTxMjJbNjREVqSwuvYFRZUfc151AKHU",
```

Honestly people should know not to expose secret keys by this pointm the code already says publickey, and secret keys are usually in array of numbers format.

In `screens/MainScreen.tsx` paste the following:

```tsx
import React from "react";
import { StatusBar, StyleSheet, View } from "react-native";
import { CounterView } from "../components/CounterView";
import { CounterButton } from "../components/CounterButton";

export function MainScreen() {
  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <StatusBar barStyle="light-content" backgroundColor="darkblue" />
      <View style={[styles.container, styles.counterContainer]}>
        <CounterView />
      </View>
      <View style={styles.incrementButtonContainer}>
        <CounterButton />
      </View>
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    height: "100%",
    width: "100%",
    backgroundColor: "lightgray",
  },
  incrementButtonContainer: {
    position: "absolute",
    right: "5%",
    bottom: "3%",
  },
  counterContainer: {
    alignContent: "center",
    alignItems: "center",
    justifyContent: "center",
  },
});
```

> ### 9. `Create CounterView.tsx`

Reviewer: No backticks or special characters in titles, see https://github.com/solana-foundation/developer-content/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#heading-styles

## Challenge

Your next challenge is to expand the app by adding a `decrement` function. You
need to create another button that will call the `decrement` method on the
Solana program. The logic for the decrement function already exists in the
program’s **IDL** (**Interface Description Language**), so your task is to write
the client-side code that interacts with it.

Once you've completed this, you can check your solution against the solution
code available on the

> [solution branch](https://github.com/Unboxed-Software/solana-react-native-counter/tree/solution).

Reviewer: You'll need to update this repo to reflect your code changes as mentioned in the Superteam Bounty. After it's done let me know and I'll move it to solana-developers.

Author: opened a PR here: https://github.com/Unboxed-Software/solana-react-native-counter/pull/2
please let me know if there's anything that needs changes

If you’ve successfully completed the lab, push your code to GitHub and share

> your feedback on this lesson through this

Reviewer: Keep the callout please.

Author: i have included it but i noticed that `<Callout>` doesn't allow the links to render properly (safe to say it won't enable markdown syntax, it might be an issue with my text editor)
